chapter 23 "Properties"
			 Supported Properties
		     The Nightmare IV LPC Library
		 written by Descartes of Borg 950429

The Nightmare IV LPC Library allows creators to set dynamic variables in
objects which do not get saved when the object saves.  The variables are
called properties.  A property is an attribute of an object which is
considered fleeting.  This document serves to list the properties
commonly used and their purpose.  It is by no means complete, as the
point of having properties is to allow creators to build their own on the
fly.

Note: All properties are 0 by default unless otherwise stated.

Property: light
Values: integer between -6 and 6
Light is a value generally between -6 and 6 which, for rooms,
determines how much light is naturally available in a room in daytime.
For other objects, it determines the degree to which the object is
able to modify the amount of light that exists in the room.  If the
room is indoors, the light does not change based on the time of day.

Property: no attack
Values: 1 to prevent attacks, 0 to allow them
Things cannot begin combat from inside a room with this property.

Property: no bump
Values: 1 to prevent bumping, 0 to allow it
If a room, then nothing can be bumped from this room.  If a living
thing, then it cannot be bumped.

Property: no steal
Values: 1 to prevent stealing, 0 to allow it
This prevents stealing inside a room with this property.

Property: no magic
Values: 1 to prevent magic, 0 to allow it
This prevents any magic from being used inside the room if set.

Property: no paralyze
Values: 1 prevents paralysis from occurring in a room, 0 allows it
Stops any sort of thing which might cause paralysis from occurring in
a room.

Property: no teleport
Values: 1 if teleporting is prohibited, 0 if allowed
Prevents people from teleporting to or from the room.

Property: no clear
Values: 1 to prevent clearing, 0 to allow it
If set this prevents an avatar from clearing a wilderness room in
order to build a town.  Not relevant to rooms in towns.

Property: estates
Values: any non-negative number
Sets the number of estates which can be built in an area.  No estates
may be built outside of towns.

Property: magic item
Values: an array of strings describing the magic contained in an object
Allows you to mark specific objects as magic.  For example, if a sword
has a magical lighting ability, you might do: 
	SetProperty("magic item", ({ "light" }));

Property: lockpicking tool
Values: any integer marking how well lockpicking is enhanced
When picking a lock, the value of this property is calculated for each
object and added to the overall chance to pick the lock.

Property: keep
Values: the name of whomever the object is kept for
While set, this object may only be picked up by the person whose name
matches the value of this property.  If 0, anyone can pick it up
assuming it is normally gettable.

Property: magic hold
Value: any integer
Is subtracted from the chance of success of anyone trying to pick a
lock.

Property: enchantment
Value: any integer
Enchants any object to boost (or degrade) its performance of its
natural functions.

Property: login
Value: a string representing a file name
Sets which room a player should login to at next login if they quit
from the room that has this property.  For example, if you have a
treasure room that is protected, and therefore you do not want people
logging into it, you can call:
	SetProperty("login", "/file/name/outside/this/room");
to have the players login to the room outside.
