chapter 35 "QCS: Modifying rooms"

    Suppose you are in your sample room and you issued the
command: 

create room south testroom1

    You then travel south and see that you are in a room that is
almost exactly like the sample room except for the exits. Well, 
probably you don't want to have a mud with nothing but identical
rooms, so let's modify it:

modify here short Test Room One

modify here long This is the first test room. The walls are rather blank.

modify here climate indoors

modify here light 30


    Ok, so far so good. Standard interior. However, a good mud has
rooms with details. Let's add some detail to this room.
    I've omitted the system output for clarity. This is just what you
would input.


modify here item

wall

walls

blank wall

blank walls

.

These are just blank walls.


    Let's review what we've done here:
1) You issued the modify command specifying your current room as the
   target, and the SetItems directive as the argument.
2) You entered a query session, and were asked to enter each element
   of the item's key.
3) You entered a single dot to indicate you were done entering 
   key elements.
4) You entered the value for the key, which is the description of the
   item.

    The result of all this is that now you can issue these commands:

exa wall
look at blank walls
examine walls

    And the output will be:

These are just blank walls.

    Let's add a floor while we're at it:

modify here item

floor

.

A floor like any other.

    In this case, you didn't feel like adding extra synonyms for "floor",
so you entered the final dot rather than entering another key element.
Then you added the description, and now if you "exa floor", you'll get
that description.
    "about here" will display to you the file you have modified.

    Well, that's enough fun with indoor rooms. There's not much more
to them. Let's go outdoors now:

create room south exterior_room

create door south test_door

open door

go south

modify here short a small lawn

modify here daylong A small, well groomed lawn on a lovely sunny day. There is a small building north of here.

modify here nightlong This is a small lawn. Stars twinkle in the night sky above, and some light is coming from a small building to the north.

modify here daylight 30

modify here nightlight 20

modify here light delete

modify here long delete

modify here items delete

modify here items

building

small building

.

A small building, rather ramshackle as if hastily put together.

modify here climate temperate

    Ok! A few new things here. A neat thing about outdoor rooms is that
typically they are subject to the time of day. A SetClimate directive
that indicates an exterior environment causes the room to receive
messages about the sun setting, rising, etc. 
    The SetDayLong and SetNightLong directives allow you to more
sensibly describe the area depending on the time of day. To avoid
confusion, I deleted the SetLong directive. It is not mandatory to
have different day and night descriptions, but players appreciate the
effort.
    It is also possible to have differing ambient light levels depending
on the time of day, so we've added SetDayLight and SetNightLight, and
we deleted the SetAmbientLight directive.

    Let's continue to add detail:

modify here item

lawn

grass

.

Healthy, well groomed and freshly cut grass.

modify here smell

default

.

You can smell the refreshing scent of freshly cut grass.

modify here smell

lawn

grass

.

Yep, it's got that new lawn smell.

modify here listen

building

.

Sounds like someone's fumbling about in there, making a mess. New creators can be so noisy.

modify here item

garden

.

You may enter the garden from here.

create room garden garden_room



    You now have a room with lots of charm and detail. You can "smell grass"
and "listen to small building", if you like. Neat, huh? But there's something 
very important to keep in mind:

 Enters, listens and smells don't work properly if there is no item defined
for that smell. For example, if you want to be able to listen to the sea,
you must "modify here item" and add a "sea" item. Otherwise, "listen
to the sea" will respond with "There is no sea here."
    The only exception to this rule is the "default" smell.

    Enters behave similarly. If you want to be able to "enter" something,
you'll need to create the corresponding item first, as in the example above.

    You can use the SetProperties directive to make the room 
conform to some presets, like:

modify here property no attack 1

    Read chapter 23 in the Creator's Manual for details on room properties.
 
    Also, please note that indoor rooms can also have differing
descriptions and light levels for night and day. It's just that
indoor rooms don't get notification of daytime changes.

    Finally, the SetTown directive allows the room to participate in
area-wide events, and is useful for security purposes as well:

modify here town MyTown

    
