    Channels are an out-of-character (OOC) means for users
to communicate with each other. You may hear the terms 
"channel" and "line" used interchangeably.

    There are two main types of channels: local and intermud.
The default Dead Souls distribution uses these channels as
local:

cre - only creators hear this
gossip - general offtopic stuff
newbie - everyone can hear this unless they turn it off
thief - channel for the thief class
fighter - channel for the fighter class
error - system errors
death - death announcements
mage - channel for the mage class
priest - channel for the priest class
explorer - channel for the explorer class
admin - only admins hear this
muds - announcements of muds connecting or disconnecting from i3
intermud - announcmenets of things like remote fingers and who

The following are intermud channels:

ds - Dead Souls mud code talk
ds_test - testing testing 1, 2, 3, etc
intergossip - general offtopic stuff
dchat - friendly offtopic stuff
lpuni - LPUniversity discussion
intercre - general technical chatter


By default, players do not have access to intermud channels.
Mud admins are asked to maintain some level of adherence to
the channel topics from their users. Muds that violate the
router admin's interpretation of "on-topic" will be asked 
politely, if possible, to conform to the channel standards.

Continued violations subject the offending mud to potential
banning.

Hate speech is not tolerated, and flaming is frowned
upon, though each mud is expected to police itself and
enforce these standards on their own.

If you don't like these rules, use a router other than the default.

For local channels of course, none of this applies. Whatever
local rules are in place, that's what must be obeyed.

Some tips:
---------
To turn on/off a channel, type its name by itself, like this: 
newbie

To know who is listening to a channel: 
list newbie
list german@dead souls demo

To see a brief history of channel messages: 
hist newbie

See also:
mute, gag, earmuff, unmuff, lines, hist, chancolors
