Creweb is  a set of CGI scripts written in LPC that
together with the mud web server allow creators to
view and edit their files from the internet, using
their browser.

A creator simply visits the mud home page and clicks on
the CreWeb link, then uses their mud name and mud
password to login.

The interface is primitive, just plain old black-on
white and HTML form controls. Perhaps a better way to
look at is is "clean and uncluttered".

Creators can upload files, and edit files. However,
they cannot navigate beyond their home directory. This
is for security reasons, and probably will not change.

To enable CreWeb on your mud:

1) Choose a port for your web server. In this example
   we'll use port 8001


2) Issue the following commands:

mudconfig http port 8001
mudconfig http disable
mudconfig cgi enable
mudconfig dirlist enable
mudconfig creweb enable
mudconfig http enable


3) Use your favorite browser to go to port 8001 on your
   mud computer. For example:

http://your.mud.address:8001


4) Click on the CreWeb link, log in, and have fun!


Important things to keep in mind about CreWeb:
---------------------------------------------

* This is an experimental system. It probably contains
bugs or problems. 

* It requires cookies and javascript enabled.

* It was built with security as a priority but it is
still a web-facing file modification system, meaning it 
is not and never can be 100% safe.

* If you decide not to use it, just use the following
command to disable it: mudconfig creweb disable

* It is intentionally limited to home directories
only. You are strongly advised not to try to change
CreWeb to circumvent this.

* If you need to use CreWeb to edit files outside your
home directory, simply copy them into your home directory
while logged into the mud, edit, then copy them back.

* Users of Microsoft Internet Explorer may have occasional
difficulty when editing files. This is due to IE's default
cache behavior. Change your preferences to reload pages:
Tools->General->Settings->Every visit to the page
  Then logout of creweb and restart IE.

* Despite my best efforts, users of IE still sometimes have 
problems. If you keep getting weird stuff like not being
able to write to a file, or being unable to display the
page, try using Firefox instead. And complain to MS. :(


