			     Object Maker

			      created by
			  Haderach@Frontiers
				4/9/98


			       Purpose
    
      The purpose of this documentation is to provide creators with an
overview of the Object Maker.  By providing an explanation of its
abilities and limititations, I believe that the Frontiers community
will benefit as a whole. By "object" I refer to rooms, NPC's, and
items.

			    Introduction
    
      I wrote this Object Maker because I found that development was
lacking. When I asked creators why that was so, I got the answer that
the documentation was too difficult to read or that they just didn't
have time to know all the functions to make a good object. Even people
who had read the documention and were familiar with the functions
needed to successfully create an object were often having trouble
because it's so hard to remember everything. Well, this handy little
object solves all those problems.  By providing creators with a
menu-driven system, it makes development easy and allows room for
development of ideas instead of rooms. One final note. All rooms and
monsters created adhere to the Magnafix standards.  This means that
all rooms have to have a roomdef.h defined, or else the room will not
be read correctly by the MudLIB.  You can, of course, delete the third
line of the file and get rid of that requirement, but it isn't
advised. Under approval guidelines, these are the rules, so follow them.


			     Menu System

      I have tried to make the menu system as easily understood as
possible. Within each menu, the possible choices are all listed.  All
one has to do is enter the number or the letter in front of the
desired function. The main menu has six choices and an option to quit
from the program.



MAIN MENU
1. Edit Room
2. Edit Item
3. Edit NPC
4. Load Room
5. Load Item
6. Load NPC
q. Quit

      The first three choices deal with the actual editing of the
object. They are the vital part of the entire operation. Within each
one, you can edit the fields of the object, write to file, clear the
buffer, and set the default directory.
      The second three choices deal with the loading of an existing
file into the buffer. Note that this will load the information from
each known field to the program into the buffer. It will write out a
completely new file, and if you overwrite the old file, the old file
will be lost.  This makes it very important that only files created by
this object maker are loaded.  Otherwise, some functions may be lost
and a lot of time will be wasted on stuff that you did.
      Most of the time when you are entering text, you can enter
simply a "c" on a single line (without the quotes, of course) to
cancel what you were doing.  However, if it doesn't work, make sure
that you mail me about it. Note that the cancel option only works in
fields where you have to enter text, not in an actual menu.  If you
press "c" in a menu, oftentimes it will clear the buffer.


			    Editing Rooms

      Editing rooms is quite easy using this object. For each field,
there is a pair of parentheses after it showing what is currently the
value of that field.  When you first start using the object maker, it
won't contain anything except default values for under the properties
option.  In order to enter something into the field, simply type the
number on the menu list. For example, to enter the town name, enter
"1". The object will ask you for the name of the town that you want.
Simply type in the name and press enter.  As soon as that is done, it
will reprint the entire menu, this time with the new value of Town
set.  Here is the menu:


   EDIT ROOM
1. Town ()
2. Climate ()
3. Properties ( "no attack":0,
       "no bump":0, 
       "no steal":0, 
       "no magic":0, 
       "no paralyze":0, 
       "no teleport":0,
 )
   DayLight(30) 
   NightLight (15)
4. Short ()
5. DayLong ()
6. NightLong ()
7. Items ()
8. Inventory ()
9. Smell ()
10. Listen ()
11. Obvious Exits ()
12. Exits ()
w. Write to File 
c. Clear Buffers 
d. Default Directory
(/realms/haderach/) 
p. Previous Menu

      The numbers are for functions that you can change.  After you
finish changing all that you want to change, you can type "w" and
write the contents to a file.  It will prompt you for a filename
within the default directory that is set.  I've taken the liberty of
setting the default directory to everyone's home directory.  Note that
it will write the file to somewhere in the default directory.  If you
want to write it somewhere else, you have to change the default
directory.  After you're done, you can choose to change something
small and then rewrite everything to a second file.  Oftentimes rooms
in people's realms look amazingly alike each other, except for minor
differences.  This object maker makes the creation of such rooms
really easy.  However, if you want to create a completely different
room, you can clear the buffers by typing "c".  Everything will be
reset to its default state except the default directory.  If you have
changed that, it should remain the same.
      Within fields like Inventory, Smell, Listen, Items, and Exits
where there is a list of things that you enter, there are extra menus
that allow you to add and remove each item. The remove function is
especially handy if you screw up on one thing or another.
      In some menus, it will mention "add to OBJDIR" or "add to
ROOMDIR".  If you don't know what that means, read the introduction to
this document and also the immortal board for further information.
The idea is that you can enter simply the filename of the defined
OBJDIR or ROOMDIR without typing in the entire absolute path.  It is
not advised that you ever use the absolute path option.

			    Editing Items

     Editing items is in essence the exact same thing as editing
rooms. The only difference is that there is a special option 11 which
allows you to create specialized items. The current possible special
items are armour, weapons, torches, and matches.  More will be added
later.  Basically, if you want to create anything other than the
special items, use the ordinary item menu to write to file. Otherwise,
fill in the ordinary item menu and go on to the special items menu.
Write from the appropriate menu.

			    Editing NPC's

It's exactly the same as editing rooms. Just enter text in the fields
and read the appropriate documentation for what each field means. Make
sure that you follow the balance guidelines.


			      Conclusion

      The object maker can make your life really easy.  However, it
won't do everything for you. It incorporates the most basic
functions. In the future, I might incorporate more advanced features,
but for now, this will have to do. If you want to add functions to
rooms, items, or npc's, you'll have to do that manually. About adding
things manually. If you wish to add object functions manually add it
between the comments:

//funs
//snuf

      This is so that the object loader will recognize them and add
them into the newly written file. If you want to add functions that
aren't usually defined for the object, add them after the extras
comment:

//extras

      The loader will read everything after this comment and append it
to the regular file. Well that's about it. Hope everyone enjoys this
awesome tool. I have certainly found it to be extremely useful.
